Java is a object oriented programming language developed by sun microsystem in the year of 1995. 

James Gosling is known as Father of Java technology.

Java known for being simple, portable, secure and robust.

Java uses WORA principle(Write once, run anywhere)

Java has 3 main area of discussion:
1. JVM  2. JRE   3. JDK

::JVM::

JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine.
It is a runtime environment in which applications are executed.

JVM has 5 main areas:
1. Class Loader 2. Memory Area 3. Execution Engine 4. Native method Interface 5. Native method Libraries

Class Loader:- whenever we run java programs it is first loaded by classloader into memory, It is used to load .class files.

Memory Area:-

Class Area: Also known as method area. It will store the information about method code, method name, fields,etc.

Head Area: It is a runtime area where objects are stored.

Stack Area: It is used to store information about local variables.

PC register: It includes address of jvm instruction to be currently executing. PC stand for program counter.

Native Method Stack: Stores information of native methods only.

Native method Interface:- Interface that interacts with the native method libraries and execution engine required for execution.

Execution Engine :- It contains Java compiler and interpreter information.

Java Native Liraries:- Contains set of libraries written in other programming languages.



::JRE::

It includes set of libraries, other files and rt.jar file that a virtual machine requires at runtime.



::JDK::

It includes JRE + development tools such as JAVAC, Java, Javadocs, etc.



:: JAVA SYNTAX ::

Java runs on different platforms, but programmers write it the same way.

To write a Java program we need a class, A class is a blueprint or template for an object in Java.

here is how we write a class:

public class Test{
}

the Test is the name of class, which is with class keyword and public keyword. A class body can be written inside of curly brackets {}.

A class is save with .java extension which is a java file saving extension.

Inside the class we had a main() method which lists our program tasks:

public class Test{

	public static void main(String[] args){
	
	}
}

Now, this is the common syntax which we use to write a java program.
we modify the code according to our necessity but the basic structure will remain the same.

You can find the HelloWorld.java file in the Day01 folder.
in this class we have wrote a simple program to print the statement on the console:


public class Test{

        public static void main(String[] args){
		System.out.println("Hello World!");

        }
}

Now in above program we are printing a statement using println statement.
Here,
System: is a built-in java class
out: is a short form of output
println: is a short of print line

we have 2 types of print statements:
1. println   2. print


If you use println() the cursor is moved to the next line. If you use print() the cursor stays on the same line.

We have a code for the same HideAndSeek.java in Day01 folder.

: COMMENTS :


A comment is a piece of text within a program that is not executed. It can be used to provide additional
information to aid in understanding the code.

we have 2 types of comments:
1. single line comments : // for only one line

//Sun Microsystems announced the release of Java in 1995



2. Multiline commnets : /*.....*/ for multiple lines to comment out.

/*James Gosling is a Canadian engineer who
created Java while working at Sun Microsystems.
His favorite number is the square root of 2!
*/

You can find the example in Day01 JavaComments.java file

: JAVA COMPILER :
Java is a compiled programming language, meaning the code we write in a .java file is transformed into byte code by a
compiler before it is executed by the Java Virtual Machine on your computer.

A compiler is a program that translates human-friendly programming languages into other programming languages that computers can execute.

to compile .java file use below command in command prompt

javac Test.java

compiled one doesn't throw any error, you can do ls to find the same file name with .class extension

if you can see .class extention files means programm compiled successfully.

Now we can execute using java command:

java Test


